In the size of the tree video
We have calculated the size of the tree using the
inorder traversal method
We can modify the logic a little bit to calculate
the maximum depth of the tree.
So while finding the size of the tree, each time
we will return 1 + size of its sub tree
Here we don't need the total number of nodes
We need maximum depth
So what we can do is instead of returning
1 + size of left sub tree + size of right sub tree
we can return 1 + maximum value between
size of left sub tree and right sub tree
See here for this node, the left sub tree size is one
and right sub tree size is two
which one is maximum? Two. So return one + two
So it will return three which is the maximum depth
of this sub tree.
Similarly here both left and right sub tree size is one
So maximum value is one, so return one + one
and it will return two which is the maximum
depth of this sub tree.
Finally here the depth of left sub tree is three and
right sub tree is two. So maximum is three.
So return one + three which is four.
And that is the maximum depth or height of this tree
So you can reuse the size of the tree logic
but each time, return one + maximum value between
left sub tree size and right sub tree size.